# (Self-built NTP) Using PPS on Tinker Board
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2019-09-16 22:20:20.000Z

In the
previous article
, I built a self-hosted NTP server using Tinker Board and an ATGM336H
GPS/BeiDou module, with GPS as the time reference. In addition to the
traditional serial output of NMEA sentences, the GPS module also
provides a PPS signal that changes once per second. Originally, gpsd
needed to continuously parse NMEA sentences from the GPS module, which
took considerable time and was prone to being preempted by other
processes, causing delay and jitter. The PPS signal, however, can
directly trigger a CPU interrupt to run a simple handler at high
priority, unaffected by other programs.

Typically, Linux kernel provides native driver support for PPS. But in
the previous setup, since Armbian Linux kernel on Tinker Board lacked
PPS support, we couldn't enable it directly.

## Solution 1: Recompile the Kernel

If the kernel lacks support, recompile it with the required feature.

This post on the Tinker Board forum
provides a kernel patch that adds PPS support. After applying the
patch and compiling the kernel, connect the PPS signal to pin 22 to
use it.

However, recompiling the Armbian kernel is complex (requiring a
specific OS like Ubuntu 18.04, cross-compilation tools, etc.) and
cannot be packaged as a deb file (which might be overwritten by system
updates). Therefore, I opted for an alternative approach:

## Solution 2: Using User-Space Programs

Without kernel support, user-space programs can provide a solution.
The program at
https://github.com/flok99/rpi_gpio_ntpd
reads signals from a specified GPIO pin and sends them to ntpd for
time synchronization.

User-space programs face an issue: like gpsd, they can be interrupted
by other processes, affecting accuracy. To address this, the program
sets itself to real-time scheduling (`SCHED_RR`) during startup.
Simply put, real-time scheduled programs have the highest priority,
responding to events immediately and (almost) never being interrupted.

Another issue arose: when I compiled and ran this program, I
encountered the error `sched_setscheduler() failed: Operation not
permitted` even as root. Research revealed that Docker uses cgroup
functionality, which conflicts with priority settings. Details can be
found in
this StackOverflow post
and
this RedHat Bugzilla discussion
.

The solution is to prevent the program from self-configuring real-time
scheduling during startup. Instead, after launching, add the program
to the main cgroup and then adjust its priority. The specific
operations can be seen in
https://github.com/xddxdd/rpi_gpio_ntpd/blob/master/systemd/rpi_gpio_n
tp.service
. The modified program is available at
https://github.com/xddxdd/rpi_gpio_ntpd
.

If Docker isn't used, the original program can be used directly.

After downloading the program, install it with `make && make install`.
Then in `/etc/default/gps0`, set ORIG_DEVICE to the corresponding
serial port (I used `ttyS1`):

```
ORIG_DEVICE="ttyS1"
```

In `/etc/default/rpi_gpio_ntp`, configure the GPIO pin. Here, 171
corresponds to pin 22 on Tinker Board (check with `gpio readall`):

```
# Configuration file for rpi_gpio_ntp.service

# Shared memory segment to communicate on
SHMSEG=1

# GPIO pin to listen on
# 4 for Adafruit Ultimate GPS HAT for Raspberry Pi
GPIO=171

# Other options, if any
OPTS=
```


Start the PPS service:

```
systemctl enable gps0 rpi_gpio_ntp
systemctl start gps0 rpi_gpio_ntp
```

Add PPS configuration to `/etc/ntp.conf`:

```
# PPS reference
server 127.127.28.1 minpoll 4 maxpoll 4 prefer
fudge  127.127.28.1 refid PPS
```

Restart NTP service:

```
systemctl restart ntp
```

Run `ntpq -pn` to see PPS with minimal jitter:

