# CommentToMail Modified Version
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2017-09-26 21:23:00.000Z

Recently, I suddenly noticed that the daily emails from my self-built
Baidu Tieba check-in system had stopped, though the check-ins were
still happening normally. When I checked the Mailgun interface, the
status was all red:


The logs showed a long list of bounce messages sent to my Outlook
mailbox, such as:


The error indicated that Mailgun's entire AS (Autonomous System) had
been blacklisted by Outlook. It was now completely unusable.

The good news is that many email service providers offer similar
services to Mailgun, such as SendGrid. I quickly registered an account
on their website, enabled SMTP, and connected my Tieba check-in
system, NextCloud, and other services without any issues.

The bad news is that my blog uses
CommentGun
, which I specifically developed for Mailgun, and it needed
modifications to work with SendGrid.

Originally, I considered modifying the plugin to create something like
"CommentGrid," but each email service provider has a different API. If
these providers get blacklisted by Outlook one after another... the
situation would be too chaotic to handle.

Another piece of good news is that these email providers generally
support SMTP for sending emails. This means I could use CommentToMail.
The downside is that this plugin is outdated and often fails in
various scenarios (e.g., when the website uses SSL or when the email
provider's SSL certificate expires).

However, enduring short-term pain is better than long-term suffering.
Instead of creating multiple "Comment"-prefixed plugins, I decided to
fix CommentToMail once and for all. Based on discussions
here
with Wang Wangjie and my own modifications from CommentGun, I finally
patched CommentToMail.

List of changes:

*   Removed asynchronous sending (it caused many email delivery
    failures)
*   Updated PHPMailer and disabled SSL certificate verification (some
    email providers have misconfigured SMTP; enabling verification
    causes issues)

Since asynchronous sending was removed, slow connections to the SMTP
server could delay website loading. My solution was to install Postfix
on the VPS to relay emails.

Finally, the GitHub project address:
https://github.com/xddxdd/typecho-commenttomail
