# Resolving gogoCLIENT DNS Issues
Category: Computers and Clients
Published on: 2014-06-01 23:17:00.000Z

Google services have been unstable recently, so I decided to use an
IPv6 tunnel to connect to Google for better access speeds.

Following the article I wrote last October,
"
=> /en/article/modify-computer/windows-8-1-gogoclient-install-repair-bug.lantian Installation, Usage, and Bug Fixes for gogoCLIENT on Windows 8.1
",
I set up the tunnel on my computer. But when I opened the command
prompt and tried to ping ipv6.google.com, the system unexpectedly
reported "Ping request could not find host ipv6.google.com".

This meant I was still connecting to Google services via IPv4, which
didn't achieve the desired effect. Normally, I would search on Google
for a solution, but the problem was that the connection to Google was
intermittent...

After a long time, I finally found a solution.

The reason is that Microsoft, in designing the operating system, does
not query DNS over IPv6 tunnels by default. The solution is as
follows:

*   Start → Run (or Win+R), type `regedit` and press Enter.

*   In the left pane, navigate to
    `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\services\Dnscache\Parameters`.


*   Right-click in the right pane, select **New → DWORD (32-bit)
    Value**, and name it `AddrConfigControl`.

After performing these steps, you can resolve IPv6 addresses normally
without restarting the computer.

Thanks to
=> http://blog.ihipop.info/2012/01/2953.html http://blog.ihipop.info/2012/01/2953.html
and
=> http://ipv6-or-no-ipv6.blogspot.sg/2009/02/teredo-ipv6-on-vista-no-aaaa-resolving.html http://ipv6-or-no-ipv6.blogspot.sg/2009/02/teredo-ipv6-on-vista-no-aaaa-resolving.html
.
