# Joining the DN42 Experimental Network
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2017-07-17 16:41:00.000Z

# 2020-03-16 Notice

This article has an updated version: see
《
=> /en/article/modify-website/dn42-experimental-network-2020.lantian Introduction to the DN42 Experimental Network (2020 Edition)
》.

The new version features a more detailed registration process and has
been updated to reflect changes in DN42 over the past three years.

The following content was written in 2017 and is for archival purposes
only.

--------------------

DN42, short for Decentralized Network 42, is a large-scale VPN
network. Unlike traditional VPNs, DN42 utilizes technologies commonly
deployed on internet backbones (such as BGP), effectively simulating a
real-world network environment.

Due to its realistic nature, the barrier to entry for DN42 is
relatively high. You'll need to act as an ISP (Internet Service
Provider): register an ASN number, obtain IPv4 and IPv6 address pools,
and broadcast them from your server using BGP. You'll also need to
contact other users to establish peering connections, gradually
integrating into the complete DN42 network.

DN42 operates on the 172.20.0.0/14 and fd00::/8 address ranges – both
reserved for private networks. This means your activities on DN42
won't interfere with your server's other internet connections.

DN42 provides
a comprehensive tutorial on ASN and IP registration
. Since you can follow those steps directly, this article focuses on
address pool broadcasting and peering with other users. We assume
you've completed ASN and address pool registration as shown:


First, log into your server, VPS, OpenWRT router, Raspberry Pi, or any
Linux device with a fixed IP and persistent connectivity. This guide
uses Debian 9; package names and config paths may differ for
CentOS/Arch Linux.

# Using OpenVPN to Peer with Other Users

First, install OpenVPN and Supervisor for management:

```bash
apt-get install openvpn supervisor
update-rc.d openvpn disable # Disable OpenVPN auto-start; manage via Supervisor
```

Generate a pre-shared key for OpenVPN P2P connections:

```bash
openvpn --genrsa --secret [name].key
```

Next, contact existing DN42 users. Use
DN42 PingFinder
to measure latency between your server and others, helping identify
low-latency peers. Most nodes are concentrated in the US and Europe,
with few in Asia-Pacific (mainly Japan/Singapore).


Note: You can peer with multiple users simultaneously (like real
ISPs). Contact several nearby peers via email and establish
connections concurrently.

Once you've chosen peers, exchange:

*   Public IPs and OpenVPN P2P ports
*   Internal DN42 IPs
*   DN42 AS numbers
*   OpenVPN pre-shared key

Both parties should create this OpenVPN config:

```config
proto       udp
mode        p2p
remote      [peer's public IP]
rport       [peer's port]
local       [your public IP]
lport       [your port]
dev-type    tun
tun-ipv6
resolv-retry infinite
dev         [arbitrary TUN name]
comp-lzo
persist-key
persist-tun
cipher aes-256-cbc
ifconfig-ipv6 [your DN42 IPv6] [peer's DN42 IPv6]
ifconfig [your DN42 IPv4] [peer's DN42 IPv4]
secret [path-to-key].key
```

Run `openvpn --config [file-path]` and verify connectivity by pinging
each other's DN42 IPs.

Add to Supervisor (`/etc/supervisor/conf.d/`):

```ini
[program:[custom-name]]
command=openvpn --config [file-path]
autostart=true
autorestart=true
```

Run `supervisorctl reload` to manage the connection.

# Using Bird for BGP Announcement

Establishing VPN links is like laying cables between ISPs. Next,
exchange reachability information via BGP. Install Bird:

```bash
apt-get install bird
```

Follow the
official guide
to create config files (replace placeholders with your AS/IPs). For
each peer, create this in `/etc/bird/peers4/`:

```bird
protocol bgp [custom-name] from dnpeers {
  neighbor [peer's DN42 IPv4] as [peer's ASN];
  direct;
};
```

The `direct` line prevents routes from being marked unreachable in
multihop mode. Create similar configs in `/etc/bird/peers6/` for IPv6.
Reload with:

```bash
birdc configure && birdc6 configure
```

Check status with `birdc show protocol`:
"Established" indicates success. If "Idle," remove `direct` (may cause
routing issues).

View routes with `birdc show route`:
Ping 172.23.0.53 or fd42:d42:d42:53::1 (DN42 DNS) to confirm
connectivity.

# Using ZeroTier One for Multi-Server Interconnection

Instead of complex OpenVPN meshes, use ZeroTier One for simpler server
interconnects. Create a ZeroTier network and configure:

Managed Routes with your DN42 IP ranges:

IPv4 Auto-Assign range:

IPv6 Auto-Assign (disable RFC4193/6PLANE):

Install ZeroTier on all servers and join the network:
Assign predefined IPs via the control panel to avoid conflicts.

After verifying internal connectivity, configure Bird BGP between
servers using their ZeroTier-assigned IPs and your own ASN. Enable IP
forwarding on all servers.

# How to Peer with Me

To join DN42 via peering with me, follow
this guide
or comment below.
*(Note: I'll contact you via email instead of replying to comments
here.)*
