# Setting Up IP Reverse Lookup in DN42
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2018-05-05 21:58:00.000Z

DN42, short for Decentralized Network 42, is a large-scale VPN
network. Unlike traditional VPNs, DN42 utilizes technologies commonly
deployed in internet backbones (such as BGP), effectively simulating a
real-world network environment.

In
a previous article
, I joined the DN42 network, and in
another article
, I registered my own domain and configured my DNS server. With a DNS
server in place, we can now set up reverse lookup records for our IP
addresses. Reverse lookup primarily aids in spam prevention and
improves the appearance of outputs in network tools like ping and
traceroute.

## Setting Up the Resolver for IP Ranges

The first step is to delegate reverse resolution for your IP ranges to
your DNS server. My servers are ns[1-3].lantian.dn42. While all could
theoretically be specified, DN42 currently requires pull requests for
configuration changes—a lengthy process—so I retained only the initial
DNS server ns1.lantian.dn42 registered with this IP.

After cloning DN42's data repository, add this line to your IP range
file:

```
nserver:            ns1.lantian.dn42
```

The complete file should resemble:

```
inetnum:            172.22.76.184 - 172.22.76.191
netname:            LANTIAN-IPV4
remarks:            Peer with me at dn42@lantian.pub
descr:              Peer with me at dn42@lantian.pub
country:            CN
admin-c:            LANTIAN-DN42
tech-c:             LANTIAN-DN42
mnt-by:             LANTIAN-MNT
nserver:            ns1.lantian.dn42
status:             ASSIGNED
cidr:               172.22.76.184/29
source:             DN42
```

Next, `git add`, `git commit`, submit a pull request, and await
merging and recursive DNS propagation.

## Configuring PowerDNS

While waiting, set up the resolver. Following
this guide
, we already have a PowerDNS server. Reverse IP resolution resembles
resolving a special domain:

*   For a /24 range, the domain is `[reverse-IP].in-addr.arpa` (e.g.,
    `0.168.192.in-addr.arpa` for 192.168.0.0/24).
*   Most DN42 users have smaller ranges (/26-/29). For 172.22.76.184/29,
    the domain becomes `184/29.76.22.172.in-addr.arpa`.

Add this domain in PowerDNS as shown:


Then create PTR records for each IP. For 172.22.76.185, the record is
`185.184/29.76.22.172.in-addr.arpa`:


After DN42's recursive DNS propagates, query reverse records using
`dig -x [IP] @172.23.0.53`:


For IPv6 reverse resolution in DN42, see
this article
.
