# Setting Up IPv6 Reverse DNS in DN42
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2018-05-27 20:19:00.000Z

DN42, short for Decentralized Network 42, is a large-scale VPN
network. Unlike traditional VPNs, DN42 utilizes technologies commonly
deployed on internet backbones (such as BGP), making it an excellent
simulation of a real-world network environment.

In
a previous article
, I joined the DN42 network, registered my own domain in
another article
, and set up my own DNS server. Later, in
this article
, I configured IPv4 reverse DNS. At that time, due to some outdated
information on the DN42 Wiki, I mistakenly believed IPv6 reverse DNS
couldn't be configured. However, I've since confirmed it's possible
through experimentation.

Since the setup process is largely similar, this article will share
significant overlap (copy-pasted content) with the earlier IPv4 guide.

## Setting Up DNS Servers for the IP Range

The first step is to delegate reverse DNS resolution for all your IP
ranges to your own DNS servers. My servers are ns[1-2].lantian.dn42,
and both can be specified.

In the IPv4 article, I reused existing settings. But because my IPv6
DNS configuration had issues, I had to submit a Pull Request to update
the IPv6 DNS servers, while also updating the IPv4 entries.

After cloning the DN42 data repository, add these lines to your IP
range file:

```
nserver:            ns1.lantian.dn42
nserver:            ns2.lantian.dn42
```

The entire file should look like this:

```
inet6num:           fdbc:f9dc:67ad:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000 - fdbc:f9dc:67ad:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff
netname:            LANTIAN-IPV6
descr:              Peer with me at dn42@lantian.pub
country:            CN
admin-c:            LANTIAN-DN42
tech-c:             LANTIAN-DN42
mnt-by:             LANTIAN-MNT
nserver:            ns1.lantian.dn42
nserver:            ns2.lantian.dn42
status:             ASSIGNED
cidr:               fdbc:f9dc:67ad::/48
source:             DN42
```

Next, `git add`, `git commit`, submit a Pull Request, and wait for
both the merge and recursive DNS propagation.

## Setting Up PowerDNS

While waiting, you can prepare the DNS server. Following
this article
, we assume you already have a PowerDNS server. Reverse IP resolution
uses a special domain format.

Since IPv6 provides abundant addresses (everyone gets a /48 block in
DN42), there's no need for subnet suffixes like "/29" in IPv4. The
special domain format for IPv6 is `[reversed IP].ip6.arpa`. For
example, my fdbc:f9dc:67ad::/48 corresponds to
`d.a.7.6.c.d.9.f.c.b.d.f.ip6.arpa`.

Add this domain to PowerDNS as shown:


Next, create PTR records for each IP. For instance, the record for
`fdbc:f9dc:67ad::8b:c606:ba01` would be
`1.0.a.b.6.0.6.c.b.8.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.d.a.7.6.c.d.9.f.c.b.d.f.ip6.arpa`,
configured as:


Manual conversion is error-prone (easy to miss zeros). A shortcut is
to run `dig -x fdbc:f9dc:67ad::8b:c606:ba01` on Linux/Mac, which
outputs:


The `QUESTION SECTION` displays the PTR record name for the IPv6
address:

```
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;1.0.a.b.6.0.6.c.b.8.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.d.a.7.6.c.d.9.f.c.b.d.f.ip6.arpa. IN PTR
```

In this case:
`1.0.a.b.6.0.6.c.b.8.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.0.d.a.7.6.c.d.9.f.c.b.d.f.ip6.arpa`.

After DN42's recursive DNS propagates, verify using `dig -x [IP]
@172.23.0.53`.
