# Win7 Laptop Broadcasting Wireless Network
Category: Computers and Clients
Published on: 2013-07-30 10:31:44.000Z

A few words first.

*   Moved to a new place.
*   Just had internet installed, with the interface in the living room.
*   No air conditioning in the living room.

Device situation: Two laptops (Macbook and Win7), one phone (seems
useless). Requirement:
Use the Win7 laptop to broadcast a wireless network.

Tried with Macbook, but it could only create an Adhoc hotspot, which
my Android phone didn't recognize. Tried Win7's built-in network
creation—also Adhoc. Phone didn't recognize it, and although Macbook
detected it, connection failed.

Background introduction complete. Main text begins.

*   Start Menu → Programs → Accessories. Right-click and open Command
    Prompt as Administrator. Enter the command:

```bash
netsh wlan set hostednetwork mode=allow ssid=lantian key=lantian.pub
```

Change "lantian" to your desired network name and "lantian.pub" to
your password (minimum 8 characters).

*   Open Network and Sharing Center. Find the newly appeared wireless
    network (should include "Microsoft Virtual WiFi Miniport Adapter").
    Rename it, e.g., "WiFi Hotspot" (optional, but keep it
    identifiable).
    If disabled, enable it. If it doesn't appear, see PS at the end.
*   Check all network connections. Set all IP configurations to
    automatic assignment.
    (Can skip initially, but errors may occur later if omitted)
*   Right-click your external connection (for ADSL: "Broadband
    Connection"; for LAN: "Local Area Connection").
    Properties → Sharing → Check "Allow other network users to connect
    through this computer』s Internet connection".
    Under "Home networking connection", select "WiFi Hotspot" (the newly
    created network).

If you see the English prompt "Internet Connection Sharing cannot be
enabled...", execute Step 3.

*   In Command Prompt, enter:

```bash
netsh wlan start hostednetwork
```

Setup complete. All devices can now connect to the internet.

PS: If the wireless network doesn』t appear, update your wireless card
driver to the latest using tools like Driver Genius or Driver Life. If
still unsuccessful, your network card doesn』t support this
feature—give up.
