# Fix China Telecom 4G Roaming on AOSP ROM by Changing APN
Category: Random Notes
Published on: 2023-04-17 19:16:39.000Z

Since the support life of my OnePlus 8T's official ROM is about to
end, I flashed Nameless OS, a Lineage OS based third party Android
ROM, onto my phone. But after flashing the ROM, I found that my China
Telecom SIM card cannot roam on the 4G network of local mobile service
providers, only 2G or 3G work. Since the local providers are recently
shutting down 2G and 3G networks, the roaming cellular signal strength
is really bad. I experience a high latency on receiving or sending
messages, nor can I use VoLTE to make calls normally.

I tested other Lineage OS based third party ROMS, and experienced the
same problem.

After numerous attempts, I found that the problem **seems to be** with
the phone's APN settings. I use the term **seems to be** because while
changing APN settings fixed my problem, I have no idea why this works,
nor am I sure this is the correct way to fix it.

Here are my steps to resolve the problem:

*   Enter phone settings - SIMs - China Telecom - Access Point Name
    settings.
*   Select "中国电信NET设置" (`ctnet`, China Telecom NET Settings) to manage
    detailed options.
*   Change `APN Type` to: `default,supl,dun,ims`
*     The original value is `default,supl,dun`

*   Click the three-dot menu on top right, and select Save.
*   Select the radio button on the right of `ctnet`.
*   Turn off the phone, wait a few minutes, and then turn it on again.
