# Snagged a 0.1-Discount VPS from 50KVM
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2018-04-03 22:01:00.000Z

The largest hosting provider on TG, 50KVM, has gone bankrupt! VPSs
originally priced at over 100 or 200 yuan are now all 2 yuan! All for
2 yuan! (Not really)

## The Beginning

*   On Sunday, April 1st around midnight, lying in bed watching the
    latest episode of "National Team"
*   Telegram notification pops up: 50KVM released an April Fools'
    discount:



*   Since I finished watching "National Team," might as well try
    entering these emojis

## First Attempt

*   Tried inputting emojis using macOS input method – turned out
    impractical since I couldn't recognize what these emojis were
*   Googled "emoji list"
*   Found an emoji reference site
    Emoji List
*   Wait, macOS emojis look completely different from those in the image
*   Took some guesses
*   (After 5 attempts)
*   Still need to identify the emoji font. Though it's 2 AM with few
    people online, any delay might let other experts snatch it

## Second Attempt

*   Considered what system Diaoji (50KVM owner) might use
*   macOS (and iOS) already ruled out
*   Picked up nearby Android phone: emojis looked different – eliminated
*   Besides, hosting providers wouldn't post discount codes via mobile
    screenshots, right?
*   Scrolled through TG group and found 50VZ's discount code image (same
    owner for both companies)


*   ClearType artifacts visible – must be Windows 10
*   Got out of bed and opened Windows 10 gaming laptop, checked emoji
    reference site – perfect match
*   Entered each corresponding emoji, submitted code
*   "The discount code you entered does not exist"
*   Closely examined code input field vs. previous screenshots –
    something felt off?
*   (Input field screenshot taken later on macOS – mentally replace the
    font)



*   Why such wide spacing between emojis in 50KVM's screenshot?
*   Added spaces?
*   Entered "⛵️ ⛴ ⛅️ ⛈ ⛱ ⛄️ ⚽️ ⚾️ ⛳️ ⛸ ⛏ ⛓ ⛔️ ⭕️"
*   Added spaces between each emoji pair, submitted
*   "Discount code applied"


## Bragging on Telegram

*   Submitted order, logged in, checked out, took screenshot, opened TG
    – saw experts still trying
*   "I've already claimed 50kvm's 99off discount"


*   An expert: "Post it! Post it!"


*   Scrolled through chat history


*   "Earlier an expert entered all emojis correctly but didn't notice
    the spaces between them"


## Afterword

*   The VPS got activated today, so I'm posting this now – no regrets
    (wink
*   Originally chose Hong Kong Shatin traffic type Tier 3: 4GB RAM, 6
    cores, original price 217.6 RMB/month, discounted to 2.18 yuan
*   Owner said Tier 3 was OOS, downgraded me to Tier 2: 2GB RAM, 4
    cores, original price 108.8/month
*   Price unchanged (still 2.18/month) – still insanely good value
    (practically free)
*   Topped up account with 100 yuan and renewed for 32 months until 2021
    New Year
*   Heirloom server acquired✓
