# Configuring LDAP Authentication for nginx
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2018-10-14 12:34:17.000Z

My various servers host different services, each with its own
username/password system, making unified management difficult. If my
password were compromised in the future, changing them individually
would be extremely tedious. Therefore, I want to use a dedicated
service to manage usernames and passwords, with all other services
obtaining authentication information from it.

LDAP is one of the commonly used authentication protocols. Not only do
many applications natively support it (including Jenkins, pfSense,
etc.), but through plugins, nginx can also support it, adding unified
authentication management to any web-based service.

## Adding the Plugin

If your nginx is compiled from source, adding the LDAP plugin only
requires three steps:

*   `apk add openldap-dev`
*   `git clone https://github.com/kvspb/nginx-auth-ldap.git`
*   `./configure --add-module=/path/to/nginx-auth-ldap`

I still deploy nginx using Docker. The Dockerfile can be found at
https://github.com/xddxdd/dockerfiles/blob/210f0f82c7bc1c0c3697d329b73
ea31abea6b14a/nginx/Dockerfile
, where the compilation parameters can be referenced.

## Configuring Authentication

After installing the plugin, first add an `ldap_server` configuration
block in the http section of nginx.conf. To prevent a single point of
failure from taking down the entire authentication service, I
temporarily used JumpCloud's LDAP service with the following
configuration:

```nginx
ldap_server jumpcloud {
    url ldap://ldap.jumpcloud.com/ou=Users,o=[Your JumpCloud LDAP ID],dc=jumpcloud,dc=com?uid?sub?(objectClass=posixAccount);
    binddn "uid=[LDAP Auth Username],ou=Users,o=[Your JumpCloud LDAP ID],dc=jumpcloud,dc=com";
    binddn_passwd "[LDAP Auth Password]";
    group_attribute "memberOf";
    group_attribute_is_dn on;

    max_down_retries 3;
    connections 1;
    referral off;

    require valid_user;
    satisfy any;
}
```

Then add the following content to the server block or location block
you want to protect:

```nginx
location /private {
    auth_ldap "Forbidden";
    auth_ldap_servers jumpcloud;
}
```

This enables authentication using the specified LDAP server.

Note: The LDAP authentication plugin conflicts with the http_addition
plugin. The specific symptom is that when both `auth_ldap` and
`add_after_body` are enabled in the same location, after successful
username/password authentication, nginx fails to send webpage data,
causing the browser to spin until timeout. The temporary solution is
to disable `add_after_body`:

```nginx
# LDAP auth doesn't work well with http_addition, disable it
add_after_body "";
```

After these steps, LDAP authentication will be enabled for the
specified address. By using nginx as a reverse proxy for other
internal services and blocking direct external access to those
services, you can uniformly protect and authenticate these services
with LDAP.
