# Troubleshooting a Linux Memory Leak
Category: Computers and Clients
Published on: 2016-12-04 23:42:00.000Z

## Root Cause

I recently developed a VPS monitoring system using PHP, consisting of
both server-side and client-side components. At 3 PM today, I added a
service monitoring feature to check running services on VPS instances.
Since all my VPSes run Debian 8, I used `service --status-all` to
retrieve service statuses. After successful testing, I moved on to
other tasks.

Around 9 PM, I received an alert email from NodeQuery indicating high
memory usage on one of my VPS instances since 7 PM.


Checking my monitoring system, I found this VPS consuming 400M/500M
memory. Another VPS showed even higher usage at 600M/1G, though it
didn't trigger alerts due to larger total memory.

The mystery was: How could these VPSes running only Shadowsocks and
ServerSpeeder consume so much memory? Using `ps -aux` revealed no
processes with such high memory usage.

## Is ServerSpeeder the Culprit?

My first suspect was ServerSpeeder. As the official version is no
longer available to new users, we use a modified version. Stopping
ServerSpeeder with `/serverspeeder/bin/serverSpeeder.sh stop` reduced
memory by dozens of MB, but usage remained high. After rebooting,
memory normalized temporarily.

However, hours later, my monitoring system showed memory climbing
again at 1MB/minute. `ps -aux` still showed nothing unusual.

Something was definitely wrong!

## Investigation

With normal process listings, I suspected kernel issues. However,
another VPS with identical setup (hosting this blog) showed normal
memory usage around 300M/500M despite unoptimized MySQL settings.


Reviewing NodeQuery data for affected VPSes revealed:


The memory spike coincided with when I added the service monitoring
feature 7 hours prior. But how could a simple PHP script reading
`/proc` files and executing basic commands cause leaks? PHP itself is
reliable.

PHP is the best language in the world.


I focused on the `service --status-all` command. Repeated execution of
`service --status-all > /dev/null && free -m` showed memory increasing
by 1MB per run - matching the symptom!

Who was consuming this memory? Research led me to
《Investigating a Memory Usage Issue》
, explaining Linux's Slab memory mechanism. While some Slab memory is
reclaimable, `free -m` and my monitoring script didn't account for it.

Checking `/proc/meminfo` showed 100MB Slab memory (mostly SUnreclaim)
shortly after reboot. Repeated execution of:

```bash
service --status-all > /dev/null && cat /proc/meminfo | grep SUnreclaim
```

confirmed SUnreclaim growth.

Further tests revealed:

*   Output redirection to files didn't resolve the issue
*   Individual service checks (`service [name] status`) showed no leaks
*   The leak only occurred with `service --status-all`

## ServerSpeeder Confirmed as Culprit

By process of elimination, I identified `/etc/init.d/serverSpeeder` as
the leak source when running `service --status-all`. Removing the init
script and manually starting via `/etc/rc.local` resolved the issue.


I plan to further analyze ServerSpeeder's scripts to identify the
exact leak source.
