# Compilation and Installation of Tengine Web Server
Category: Computers and Clients
Published on: 2013-07-31 16:19:50.000Z

Tengine is a high-performance web server developed by Alibaba based on
nginx. In addition to retaining nginx's original high-performance
features, it adds the following capabilities:

While ordinary users may not notice a difference, it's still great for
experimentation. I've heard sites like Tudou or 56.com have already
adopted Tengine.

Below are the compilation steps.

```bash
./configure --prefix=/usr --enable-mods-shared=all --with-rtsig_module --with-select_module --with-poll_module --with-file-aio --with-ipv6 --with-http_realip_module --with-http_addition_module --with-http_xslt_module --with-http_image_filter_module --with-http_geoip_module --with-http_sub_module --with-http_dav_module --with-http_flv_module --with-http_slice_module --with-http_mp4_module --with-http_gzip_static_module --with-http_concat_module --with-http_random_index_module --with-http_secure_link_module --with-http_degradation_module --with-http_sysguard_module --with-http_lua_module --with-http_tfs_module --with-mail --with-mail_ssl_module --with-google_perftools_module --with-cpp_test_module --with-backtrace_module --with-pcre --with-pcre-jit --with-md5-asm --with-sha1-asm --with-libatomic --with-jemalloc
```

Note: Since Tengine is modular, we're enabling extra modules for
flexibility (they load dynamically). Remove any `--with-...` option
for modules you don't need.

If `configure` fails, it's usually due to missing `libxxx`
dependencies. Search for them in Synaptic Package Manager. Remember to
install `-dev` packages (base packages install automatically).

```bash
make -j4
sudo make install
```

Installation complete. Start with `nginx` in the terminal. Tengine
configuration is similar to nginx – refer to nginx documentation for
guidance.
