# pfSense Configuration for IPv6 Multi-WAN Automatic Failover
Category: Website and Servers
Published on: 2018-11-17 03:29:00.000Z

Just a few days ago, HE.NET Tunnelbroker's French server experienced
an outage. When I configured my Kimsufi server, I assigned the native
IPv6 addresses to ESXi for exclusive use (as described in
this article
), leaving pfSense with only native IPv4 and obtaining IPv6 addresses
through Tunnelbroker. Consequently, all virtual machines on the server
lost IPv6 connectivity. More critically, since I had set up a NAT64
service on the server following
this article
, and configured pfSense's DNS resolution to prioritize Google DNS's
NAT64 servers (2001:4860:4860::64 and 2001:4860:4860::6464) with IPv4
as fallback, DNS resolution almost completely failed due to the IPv6
outage combined with pfSense's long DNS timeout settings.

To prevent such cascading failures from recurring, I plan to use
multiple Tunnelbrokers for mutual backup and configure pfSense's
Multi-WAN Failover feature. This will ensure immediate failover to
alternate Tunnelbrokers if one fails, maintaining uninterrupted IPv6
connectivity.

## Setting Up Additional Tunnelbrokers

A current list of operational Tunnelbrokers can be found on the
Wikipedia page:
List of IPv6 tunnel brokers
. Among these, I successfully registered with HE.NET, IP4Market, and
NetAssist. Note that NetAssist's server, while previously functional,
is now consistently unavailable.

IP4Market is a Russian website with an interface in Russian, but
registration can be completed seamlessly using Google Translate.

After registration, you'll receive server and client IPv4/IPv6 address
information (IPs truncated in screenshot below):


Next, create the tunnel in pfSense. Under **Interfaces > Assignments >
GIFs**, add a GIF tunnel (IPs truncated):


Then assign this tunnel as an interface. Under **Interfaces >
Assignments**, add the newly created tunnel and enable it in the
interface settings:


Verify tunnel connectivity by pinging the remote endpoint under
**Status > Gateways**.

## Configuring Multi-WAN Automatic Failover

To enable automatic failover when a tunnel fails, navigate to **System
> Routing > Gateway Groups**. This feature allows grouping multiple
gateways (including tunnel endpoints) for load balancing or failover.

Add a gateway group and prioritize the tunnel gateways by assigning
them Tier 1, Tier 2, etc. Set the **Trigger Level** to *Member Down*:


However, if you set this gateway group as the default route, you'll
notice that when the primary gateway fails, internal machines still
cannot access IPv6 despite the gateway group switching. This occurs
because LAN devices typically obtain IPv6 addresses from the primary
gateway's pool (e.g., HE.NET). Alternate Tunnelbrokers (like
IP4Market) won't recognize these addresses and will block traffic.
Even if packets pass through, return traffic would be routed to the
offline primary gateway.

The solution is pfSense's NPt (Network Prefix Translation) feature,
which performs 1:1 mapping between IPv6 subnets. Here, we map HE.NET
addresses to IP4Market's address pool to ensure recognition and
forwarding.

Under **Firewall > NAT > NPt**, add an entry to map LAN addresses to
IP4Market's provided subnet:


LAN machines can now access the internet via IP4Market's Tunnelbroker.
